Fixed #35886 -- Move object-based media assets to the public API (#18782)
django/django: docs/topics/forms/media.txt

Reviewer: I think it might be nice to document CSS and JS explicitly, something a bit like:
```diff
diff --git a/docs/topics/forms/media.txt b/docs/topics/forms/media.txt
index 889c240514..12d8163ff1 100644
--- a/docs/topics/forms/media.txt
+++ b/docs/topics/forms/media.txt
@@ -2,6 +2,8 @@
 Form Assets (the ``Media`` class)
 =================================
 
+.. currentmodule:: django.forms
+
 Rendering an attractive and easy-to-use web form requires more than just
 HTML - it also requires CSS stylesheets, and if you want to use fancy widgets,
 you may also need to include some JavaScript on each page. The exact
@@ -123,6 +125,19 @@ If this last CSS definition were to be rendered, it would become the following H
     <link href="https://static.example.com/lo_res.css" media="tv,projector" rel="stylesheet">
     <link href="https://static.example.com/newspaper.css" media="print" rel="stylesheet">
 
+``CSS`` objects
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+
+.. versionadded:: 5.2
+
+.. class:: CSS(path, **attributes)
+
+    :param path: String path to the CSS file. See
+        :ref:`the section on paths <form-asset-paths>` for details.
+
+    :param attributes: HTML attributes to be set on the rendered ``<link>``
+        tag.
+
 ``js``
 ------
 
@@ -130,6 +145,19 @@ A tuple describing the required JavaScript files. See :ref:`the
 section on paths <form-asset-paths>` for details of how to specify
 paths to these files.
 
+``JS`` objects
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+
+.. versionadded:: 5.2
+
+.. class:: JS(path, **attributes)
+
+    :param path: String path to the JS file. See
+        :ref:`the section on paths <form-asset-paths>` for details.
+
+    :param attributes: HTML attributes to be set on the rendered ``<script>``
+        tag.
+
 ``extend``
 ----------
```

section on paths <form-asset-paths>` for details of how to specify
paths to these files.

``Script`` objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. versionadded:: 5.2

.. class:: Script(src, **attributes)

>     :param src: String path to the JS file. See
>         :ref:`the section on paths <form-asset-paths>` for details.
> 
>     :param attributes: HTML attributes to be set on the rendered ``<script>``
>         tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Represents a script file.

    The first parameter, ``src``, is the string path to the script file. See
    :ref:`the section on paths <form-asset-paths>` for details on how to
    specify paths to these files.

    The optional keyword arguments, ``**attributes``, are HTML attributes that
    are set on the rendered ``<script>`` tag.
```
I know I suggested the `:param` stuff, but it looks like it's not used very often. So maybe something like the above

Paths as objects
----------------

.. _form-media-asset-objects:

Assets may also be object based. Furthermore, the following methods allows
you to pass custom HTML attributes::

    class Media:
        css = {
            "all": [CSS("pretty.css", media="all", crossorigin="anonymous")],
        }
        js = [
            JS(
                "https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.3.1.slim.min.js",
                **{
                    "integrity"="sha384-q8i/X+965DzO0rT7abK41JStQIAqVgRVzpbzo5smXKp4YfRvH+8abtTE1Pi6jizo"
                    "crossorigin"="anonymous",
                    "async": True,
                },
            ),
        ]

If this Media definition were to be rendered, it would become the following HTML:

.. code-block:: html+django

    <link href="https://static.example.com/pretty.css" media="all" crossorigin="anonymous" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.3.1.slim.min.js"
            integrity="sha384-q8i/X+965DzO0rT7abK41JStQIAqVgRVzpbzo5smXKp4YfRvH+8abtTE1Pi6jizo"
            crossorigin="anonymous"
            async>
    </script>

> ..note:: The ``media`` attribute on the CSS-object overrides the dictionary key.

Reviewer: I think this needs a `.. versionchanged:` note

    <script src="https://static.example.com/animations.27e20196a850.js"></script>
    <script src="https://othersite.com/actions.js"></script>

.. _form-media-asset-objects:

Paths as objects
----------------

Assets may also be object-based, using :class:`.Script`.
Furthermore, these allow you to pass custom HTML attributes::

    class Media:
        js = [
            Script(
                "https://cdn.example.com/something.min.js",
                **{
                    "crossorigin": "anonymous",
                    "async": True,
                },
            ),
        ]

If this Media definition were to be rendered, it would become the following
HTML:

.. code-block:: html+django

    <script src="https://cdn.example.com/something.min.js"
            crossorigin="anonymous"
            async>
    </script>

> 
> .. note::
> 
>     The ``media`` dictionary key of ``Media.css`` is ignored, when using
>     object-based assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This note can be removed

    <script src="https://static.example.com/animations.27e20196a850.js"></script>
    <script src="https://othersite.com/actions.js"></script>

.. _form-media-asset-objects:

Paths as objects
----------------

Assets may also be object-based, using :class:`.CSS` and :class:`.JS`.
Furthermore, these allow you to pass custom HTML attributes::

>     class Media:

Reviewer: Asked on the forum, but will ask here as well so folks get notified

Are we all happy with the names of `CSS` and `JS` for these classes?
Not sure if having an all-caps class name is something we should avoid. Maybe `CSSAsset`/`JSAsset`?

Author: We might also consider their corresponding HTML tags: `Script` & `Link`

Reviewer: I like those! I'm not necessarily against `CSS` and `JS` but I'm conscious it's hard to rename things

Reviewer 2: I don't care much either way but there's a precedent for using `CSS` and `JS`, since those are the keywords used by `forms.Media`. If we were starting from scratch it would maybe be a different story, but I think since we're basically enabling additional use cases for the existing `css` and `js` names using `CSS` and `JS` should be fine as well.

Author: > I don't care much either way but there's a precedent for using `CSS` and `JS`, since those are the keywords used by `forms.Media`. If we were starting from scratch it would maybe be a different story, but I think since we're basically enabling additional use cases for the existing `css` and `js` names using `CSS` and `JS` should be fine as well.

You make a valid point. Form media currently revolves around this concept.

Author: After some consideration, I would strongly recommend dropping CSS altogether. There isn't a strong use case. Modern web components ship with their own styles. Exposing `link` comes with multiple new challenges, especially since Form.media assets are path-based. A simple preload and stylesheet combo would break the current implementation of form Media. Besides, they dict-key media attribute warning, isn't intuitive either.

Looking into the future, I would envision `Form.media` just being a simple list of object-based assets or maybe split into head and body. But this was meant as a quick win. It's a win for me, if we get `Script` into Django 5.2.

@sarahboyce if, you are in favor, I would split this up.

Reviewer: Always happy for less - let's split :grin:

Author: It has been done.

        css = {
            "all": [CSS("pretty.css", media="all", crossorigin="anonymous")],

>         }

Reviewer: Based off the note where ```The ``media`` attribute on the :class:`.CSS` object overrides the dictionary key.```
I think we're missing a test when media is not provided and when media is different to the dictionary key

Author: Excellent catch. The node was actually wrong. I added a test and updated the note to reflect the current behavior.
